---
title: ICS 111, Spring 22
sidebar_label: 111 S22
---

## Overview

ICS111 Section 1:         27 students, 26 participants. 
ICS111 Section 2:         15 students, 15 participants. 

## 111-S22-01

My first experience about RadGrad is that I need to understand my plan about my ICS life and with that being said it is a little bit overwhelming. But I do understand that the whole purpose of the RadGrad is to give us student the basic pathway of our ICS journey. It is actually cool that the university is providing this kind of tools to help the students to further their knowledge and experience about the ICS world. I am still figuring out my life about this matter. I feel like I am at culture shock right now and felt really disappointed to myself that I was not comprehending with some of the stuff about ICS. I really love challenges that improves my knowledge and experience, but I am honestly struggling with my academic and personal life. I had mental issues before that I am still trying to fight every day and I was thinking that if I put myself in coding, I would gradually forget about my issues. Overall, the RadGrad experience is great but overwhelming at the same time for a slow learner like me.

## 111-S22-02

I thoroughly enjoyed exploring and using RadGrad. The 60 second introduction video was entertaining, yet short enough to watch. Also, the tutorial was useful and very detailed. I particularly liked the screenshots of what I was supposed to be looking at, they helped me to navigate RadGrad easily. As a freshman in UHM, finding a career path for the years approaching graduation is unnecessarily difficult. I am appreciative to RadGrad for at least giving me an idea of what to expect and things to look out for. This is the first time that I've seen specific examples of extracurriculars that I could participate in such as actual interships, specific clubs, and working opportunities. In terms of constructive advice, I only have one. I am not majoring in Computer Science, but rather Civil Engineering. It would be even more helpful if RadGrad included career paths for other STEM majors. Other than that, I appreciated the layout of the website and its purpose. 

## 111-S22-03

My experience with rad grad was very confusing. Although they gave tutorials and instructions, the website itself is what caused me much frustration. I would add classes to fulfill the mandatory tasks, but no matter what I did, they would never be shown as “completed”. After some time, I resorted to just logging out and refreshing the site, which finally allowed me to see my progress. I had to keep refreshing every time I wanted to see my progress. RadGrad was interesting because it suggested classes and opportunities that aligned with my interests or previous class/opportunity experiences. In addition, I thought the best part of RadGrad was the section dedicated to information about different opportunities. Sometimes, college students have trouble finding extracurricular activities, and RadGrad organized, described, and allowed you to schedule these opportunities, which was very helpful.

## 111-S22-04

As someone who started their ICS degree with minimal experience in computer science and programming, RadGrad seems like a valuable tool which can bring direction to my degree path.  The program sheet for computer science does this, but RadGrad seems much more interactive and user friendly.  Also, for the listed courses on RadGrad, there are in-depth descriptions of the course content as well as the occasional review from someone who has already taken the course. At times I have felt rudderless, not knowing the correct classes to take for my degree plan.  However, RadGrad reveals many different options with in-depth descriptions, allowing me to make an informed decision to further my degree path. To me, RadGrad seems to be most valuable in regard to the networking opportunities that it could potentially bring about. Being relatively new to computer science, I do not think that I am aware of all the different career paths and opportunities that an ICS degree can bring about.  RadGrad makes those pathways clear and allows me to seek out and work with different people from different clubs and organizations who are at the same stage of development as me.  Being able to network and work with other people will only enrich my own experience.  Also, working with people who have already completed the requirements that I am currently working on, will help me to make more informed career/degree decisions to minimize wasted efforts and time.  Most importantly however, RadGrad seems like it can connect me with opportunities and experiences that will allow me to exercise and further my own skill. RadGrad seems to be a powerful tool and I plan to use it and exercise it to its fullest extent!

## 111-S22-05

No matter how many "opportunities" i added, then put in my degree planner, it would not remove it from the "priorities" category. RadGrad is a very interesting tool which helps simplify and clarify one's goals within the Computer Science degree program at UH. The degree plan helps separate out your Computer Science focused studies from all the other electives and narrows the focus on what you plan to achieve within Computer Science.  Then, once that focus is established it has a very useful tool of showing what opportunities may be available tailored an individuals profile and goals.  On its surface it appears to be a professional/social platform for ComputerScience minded people. One of the biggest obstacles i see with my fellow students is lack of knowledge on how to start their career once they obtain their degree.  RadGrad appears to do a very good job on building a platform to bridge that gap. 

## 111-S22-06

I found my experience on RadGrad to be insightful and helpful in the guidance of my future. I think that building a well-rounded portfolio is extremely valuable regardless of career path, but especially in CS. The ability to participate in research, online education, and outreach will allow me to grow and be prepared for finding work after graduation. I particularly liked the interests feature and how it updates based on your career objectives. It is exciting to see all the different pathways you can choose and also see what is needed to excel in them. This ability to check off the boxes needed is a positive way to stay motivated and chip away at goals. I also like the feature to allow others to see your interests and shared pathways. This can lead to collaboration which is very beneficial for personal and career growth.

## 111-S22-07

I feel like Rad-grad will be quite helpful for planning a fulfilling college experience. It was really motivating to look through all of the cool classes I could potentially take, and I am now more excited about my degree than I was before. I think the way that it helps you plan out your degree in conjunction with star is also a fairly useful feature although it would be nice if it helped you understand the order and pre recs for each class. For me, Rad grads most helpful feature was the large list of opportunities, as its really helpful to have so many with such easy access right there at your finger tips. I am excited to try some of the online classes this summer and I was curious about how I could continue learning at home before I did rad grad.  



## 111-S22-08

I appreciate how Radgrad organized and put my CS plan all in one place. I liked how it brought to my awareness that there are a bunch of opportunities that could aid in my hire-ability for after I graduate with my degree. The only thing I don't quite like is that it seems as though the platform doesn't take in to account people who only want to graduate with a CS minor (not a major) . Graduating with a minor in CS requires less courses to complete so I wish Radgrad could reflect that. 

## 111-S22-09

RadGrad was a cool website! The tutorial was a bit much, and the requirements for adding courses and opportunities required WAY too much attention. I had to add 15+ opportunities throughout the next 3 years of my life to meet the requirements. I like the fact that it shows us all these cool internships/opportunities that we can explore but having to plan out the next 3 years of my life was over the top. We already have STAR Journey through UH Manoa and now we have to recreate our entire class schedule as well!? I did find some cool opportunities that I liked and found interest in, but there were many opportunities I added just to meet the requirements even though I knew little about or had no interest in. Overall, the website is great for exploring what is possible and what is out there, I think the requirements need to be toned down a lot though.

## 111-S22-10

I enjoyed using RadGrad as my course and career tutor. Following the process all the way to the end allows me to have a clearer sense of how to prepare for the future courses, find a job, and accumulate some internship experience before actually being employed. From the RadGrad, I found my interests, settled certain career goals and recognized some available opportunities to better prepare myself. I kind of draw a clear picture of my course and career pathway through RadGrad. I like how the RadGrad has a detail extension option for all the categories. Its planner is concise and easy to use. It is also interesting to see community visibility which allows me to find my career community. RadGrad is a fun and useful planner for students’ courses and career planning. I definitely would like to recommend it to my friends.

## 111-S22-11

Overall, the RadGrad simulation was very informational and helpful with seeing my future with an ics degree. Beforehand, I had a broad idea of what I was interested in, but the opportunity and degree options helped narrow down my outlook. I enjoyed reading the descriptions and comments of each course and career. Now to using the radgrad, at first it was sort of confusing. But, after carefully reading the instructions I got the hang of it fairly quickly. I appreciated all the course options they had available. As one suggestion, I wanted some other outside opportunity options. I found this assignment being helpful in my career outlook.

## 111-S22-12

Starting RadGrad I was expecting LinkedIn with a UH Manoa skin and some elements that were catered to UHM students, but it had much more than I was expecting including areas that showed opportunities that ranged from research to teaching roles. It is an interesting touch to show tags on specific classes to show what it is related to and especially nice to see what language some of them were in. I happened to learn that ICS 312, a class I was looking at taking, is coded in Assembly. The intro videos that included with some of the classes were very nice as it added more details about the class in visual form. Some minor things that I had noticed using RadGrad is that there is no option to indicate that someone is pursuing an ICS minor. This means that I had added extra classes that I thought might take to fullfil the minor requirements but wasn't a 100% sure if I should take them.  

## 111-S22-13

My experience with RadGrad was very informative as this website showed me countless possibilities, opportunities, and career development experiences that it has to offer. When I went through the tutorial, RagGrad emphasized the goal of their project and which is to improve the undergrad degree experience and to provide students the opportunity and career planning and development. One thing I noticed when browsing through the tutorial of RadGrad is their goal to improve student diversity, student degree experience, and to improve student engagement. One amazing feature that RadGrad offers is its 'Opportunities' feature. This feature allows students to explore possible extra-curricular activities that correlate with their degree planning. One thing I admire about RadGrad is their goal to connect students with similar interests, career goals, opportunities, etc. The fact that RadGrad also offers students to plan out their courses for their degree is another feature that I admire from them. Not only does RadGrad help out with students' courses, but they also connect student interests and opportunities with the schedule of their coursework. RadGrad also offers a cool feature where there is a 'level' system where it showcases a student's level, and there are six levels in total for RadGrad. A student first using RadGrad starts off as 'grasshopper' and when they continue to do extra-curricular activities/opportunities, their level goes up and the last level is 'ninja.' The level system that RadGrad has implemented can motivate and inspire students to continue to do well in their courses and in their extra-curricular activities.  

## 111-S22-14

The RadGrad website has opened my eyes to lots of things I never knew about computer science in general. I am planning to major in mechanical engineering but had to take ICS 111 for my major plan. Going through and exploring the RadGrad page has made me become more interested in computer science and what the cs major actually does. I liked how you were able to select your interests to your profile and see other students with the same interests, and how you could also filter out classes and opportunities by your interests. I also thought it was cool how you could see other people and administrators within certain programs, as well as you can see what some students thought of each of the classes by their reviews.

## 111-S22-15

When I clicked the hyperlink from the course website I landed at RadGrads instruction page. If I am correct, this is the place where all future homework instructions would be held. I briefly looked over the tutorial and decided to rush ahead into completing the high-priority checklists. These checklists were done quickly until I reached the courses and opportunities checklist. At first I was confused about why these final checklists did not complete, even though I have selected opportunities and ICS courses. I then quickly realized that courses and opportunities must equate to one-hundred Innovation, Competency, and Experience. Although these requirements makes sense, I felt overwhelmed because I was not sure whether or not I would be able to reach the point requirements, or if my choices still remain the same in the future. Although overwhelming at first, I can see how RadGrad can help people with the organization of ICS courses.

## 111-S22-16

This is my first time using RadGrad and it was interesting.  RadGrad showed various different types of opportunities in Computer Science.  It was my first time even looking at Computer Science majors and there were various types of things that made me interested in computer science.  Each checklist item gave very detailed information about each topic and helped me get through this process very easily. The tutorial was very helpful and helped guide me through the program very well. Looking at the different types of computer science stuff I was lost, however each gave a description of what each thing was about.  The different types of careers and the amount of level of things you need to have in order to have your plan complete.  It was very interesting planning a different career path for me since I am majoring in Mechanical Engineering, however it was a good experience.  It was very straightforward and helped me see what I would need to do if I were to major in Computer Science.



## 111-S22-17

Through my first user experience with RadGrad, I have learned that the website is a helpful tool for Computer Science undergraduates to plan for their future and have a successful career. One of the most essential functions of RadGrad was the degree planner. The planner's purpose was to sort out the student's interests and future computer science courses within a certain amount of years. They allow the student to understand how they should divide their time and not overwhelm themselves with many classes and opportunities within one semester. However, RadGrad is unable to explain course prerequisites. For example, a student would not be able to take ICS 241 without taking ICS 141 a previous semester. But with RadGrad, a student is able to place courses anywhere within the planner without precaution. Overall, I would say that the planner feature is the most helpful feature on RadGrad, and with careful thinking, it can be a vital resource for any student willing to put in the time and effort. Another useful feature was the opportunity page. In general, it is hard for undergraduate students to find tech opportunities, especially on a small island. The opportunity page in RadGrad allows students to learn about opportunities within Hawaii and find professionals and connect with other interested students. In addition, each opportunity showcases interests, so the student would understand what they should start learning about before committing. Overall, the RadGrad opportunities page is a vital resource for people trying to put their door into the tech industry. In conclusion, RadGrad provides many resources for undergraduates to prepare for their future careers and hopefully land job opportunities right out of college. Especially the degree planner puts students in the perspective of what they are spending their future semesters and money on when it comes to courses. While making sure they spread out their time and make sure they do not overwhelm themselves with a lot of things within one semester. Also, the opportunities page exposes students to what they can do during their time on Oahu and make the most out of it. I hope that future ICS majors who come to Manoa will make sure to use RadGrad and have fun at the same time.


## 111-S22-18


I enjoyed using the RadGrad website to learn about the various opportunities for Computer Science students. As a student taking ICS for the first time, I have a limited knowledge of the program and how it works. It can be a daunting task to integrate oneself into a vast community, particularly after living in a pandemic for several years. RadGrad provides an easily accessible source of information that makes this process friendly and convenient. A useful feature of RadGrad is the ability to experiment with your graduation pathway. The degree planner mechanism allows the user to view a list of all of the Computer Science courses offered at UH. The user can then select their desired courses and add them to a planner that organizes the courses by selected semester. This way, the student can plan their schedule while exploring different possibilities. Most interestingly, is that there are in depth course descriptions for many of the major subjects, which often feature student-made videos. I found the Opportunity Explorer to be the most informative and exciting feature. The explorer offers a consolidated view of the different extracurricular activities for Computer Science students. Hackathons, internships, and community-based activities are among the listed, along with their corresponding timeframes and average availability. These activities are great for building resumes and forming connections. These attributes are essential not only for paving the way to a strong career, but also for giving back to the community. The site educates students about organizations such as Purple Mai’a and others that seek to re-center Native Hawaiians, women, and people of color in technology and Computer Science. Overall, RadGrad does a great job of integrating new students into the Computer Science community at UH.

## 111-S22-19

The course planner was simple to use by simply finding the courses you want to take in the explorer and dropping them into the planner. I like how there were small box categories of the courses and opportunities to show what they are about. As well as the favoriting system to find the same categories in other courses and opportunities that interest you. I also appreciate the tab for careers to find what you want to become. Having a place where a simple description of the all careers that in involve computer science is extremely helpful. Something that I wish was added is a way for you to add your schedule from your star account. Being able to drop all you semesters of the future ICS classes you are going to take would be extremely helpful. The point system is helpful to let you know how much is needed to be well rounded. However, I don't think it's necessary for the high priority to do list to require you to completely fill out the ICE. I think just having the courses and opportunities at the minimum of three each for your desired career would be fine.

## 111-S22-20

My experience with RadGrad was very fun and interesting. Seeing all the events that were available was very useful. The ICE scales were also an interesting addition. Seeing all the career opportunities was very fun. The instructions were a little obscure so it was a bit hard to complete. Seeing all the interests and skills that can be developed for certain jobs was very useful to see. There were skills that I didn't really consider. It showed me different career paths that I didn't even think of.

## 111-S22-21

I was introduced to rad grad during the middle of November when I had to do my mandatory advising, so I knew how the website worked before starting this assignment. However, I was only given a very brief overview of the site and I have never actually used it myself. One of the first things I noticed about rad grad is that the site provides detailed descriptions about all of the ics courses that are offered at UH. This is a tool that I found to be very helpful as it allows me to plan my future courses and set up my degree plan for the next four years. Additionally, the site also allows students to search for opportunities that are available to ics students as well as career goals, which they (they students) can add to their degree plan/profile. I especially enjoyed this part of the assignment because I got the chance to browse through the many different clubs/programs that fit my interests. 

## 111-S22-22

My experience with Rad Grad was fine. The introduction to it was satisfactory and the user interface and experience were functional and easy enough to understand. However, I’m not planning on going much further into computer science, so I think it’s use is limited to me. I’m more interested in Civil Engineering, so I only have to do basic computer science classes. But, I can see how it could be useful for someone who is pursuing a computer science or related degree. Rad Grad lists and details (presumably) all the computer science courses at UH Manoa and allows users to plan when they will take the courses of their choosing. The site also allows users to list opportunities they could take advantage of in the future. As your profile can be viewed by others and vice versa, this site could be useful in networking and finding various opportunities in many fields of computer science. 

## 111-S22-23

From my personal experience of using the website known as “RadGrad,” I find it to be very helpful and user-friendly. I thought that being able to freely choose what I am interested in and my career goals for it to sort out what classes I should take and etc. was very ingenious of them to incorporate. I also found that when picking courses you’re able to see the number of people who plan or are taking that specific course within each academic year to be very alluring. As I know I won’t be taking these classes alone. To add on, when exploring the interest section I was able to see who else shares the same interests within the class, and I thought that was very interesting. Lastly, seeing the course reviews of other students is informative to have because it goes to say opinions can change a person's decision. Although I do see the website to be handy and rewarding, I encountered a few flaws within the system. For example, when trying to complete the sections including: courses and opportunities. I found it to be very frustrating to accomplish such a goal of getting that completion mark. I have listed over nine courses that I probably won’t be able to take due to what I am majoring in. As well as adding over three different opportunities to find that I need to add more just to complete the section. To summarize, my experience with RadGrad can be seen as a ⅘ review, and I do see myself possibly going back to this website in the near future.


## 111-S22-24


At first, I did not think that RadGrad was for me. I have used many different course websites to search for my interests in CS and see what field I might fall into later into my career. However, RadGrad really opened my eyes to the world of CS and what really goes into becoming a CS major and CS as a career path. I was not aware of the many opportunities on the island for CS majors, especially the many events such as UHM events and game development group works. I appreciated that RadGrad gave us a detailed explanation and examples of what specific career paths would lead into, and even gave a short video explanation of each career. The most important thing for me on RadGrad was not the career choice and creating a profile, but the degree planner. The degree planner really helped me a path out the rest of my college years in one little box. I haven’t really thought about what exactly I was wanted to do going forward, but the degree planner really helped me look at the choices and opportunities that UH has to offer for the CS majors. Being able to look at a list of classes, that explain the course in detail with statistics really helped me understand the class itself and imagine myself in that scenario. I will definitely continue using RadGrad if given the opportunity to do so, and continue to be on top of my career and build upon it to become a outstanding graduate by the end of my college years.


## 111-S22-25


I thought RadGrad was a really good tool. There is a lot of resources on there that would be difficult to find outside of this website. It also made it super simple to plan out future scheduling for both classes and opportunities outside of school as well. I think is something that I will definitely be using more in the future.

## 111-S22-26

I think RadGrad is a great resource especially for new students who are passionate about computer science but are not sure of what opportunities are available, what future classes are like etc. I also really liked the ICE system where I represents Innovation, C represents Competency, and E represents Experience because this creates a well-rounded computer science student and is important in graduate school and career. However, I wish the page was more updated with various opportunities, research experiences, and internships. I also liked how you could view other people and their interests, careers, and opportunities. I think this is particularly important in computer science because contrary to stereotypes, it is essential to have teamwork and collaboration in computer science. Moreover, knowing that other people have similar interests and career focus as you creates a tightly knitted community. I also did like the reviews for courses but I feel like if the dates or semester of when the student took the course was added that would also be helpful. Overall, it was a very informative site. 


## 111-S22-27

My experience with the program RadGrad was interesting. First off, I was slightly surprised by the concept of the program as it is specifically made for those who are majoring in computer science or any related major. Given that out ICS 111 course is for many majors that are not related to those majors, the use of the program for many students in the course would not be useful. For myself, I am a mechanical engineering major and having to choose career paths and courses I was not necessarily interested in was difficult. To add on to that idea, the degree and course planner itself was extremely  unrealistic in its requirement  for one to fill up those 100 points for the task to be cleared. To fill those points I had to select over 9 courses which in turn spilled into summer courses. When taking into account the requirements for ones major, that system alone is extremely unrealistic as one would not be taking that many ICS courses. The overall idea of the program is good but the execution was extremely poor. I think it would be better for the degree planner to 1) be more inclusive of all course a student in a STEM major would take at UHM and 2) be more inclusive of all STEM majors in general that would have to take ICS 111 because comp sci majors are not the only ones taking the course. Making it more inclusive would be a lot better and more user friendly so other majors like myself wont have to struggle in choosing courses and career paths that aren't what we truly want to do.

## 111-S22-28

I was planning to go through college just by taking the most basic courses and studying the material to earn my degree. I didn't intend to look for outside opportunities to really practice my skills as a programmer. However, after looking through the radgrad opportunities section, I realized that there's actually a lot of things I can do to gain a ton of experience and explore new areas of interest I may not have considered before. In fact, I think enhancing my experience by using these vast opportunities may be essential to ensuring I succeed. Radgrad also helped me learn more about the specificities of the ICS courses I'll need to take in the future. I only had a general outline of my courses on star, but radgrad provided a surprisingly useful list of courses that focus on particular things I may want to study. Now instead of looking at my degree plan as a series of course numbers like 141, 241, 211, etc., I can actually put a name to those course numbers and have a better idea of what exactly I'm going to be learning.

## 111-S22-29

RadGrad has been one of my favorite tools that I learned about after taking this course. I have been considering fully switching over to an ICS Major, but was overwhelmed by the overall possibilities and options that come with switching majors. Additionally, I am relatively new to the world of computer science and so I was confused about what courses I needed to take to not only graduate, but to gain the necessary experience and knowledge to succeed in the professional field. Through RadGrad, I was able to gain important information on the specific classes I should be taking based on my personal interests. For instance, I have a lot of curiosity in machine learning and python. RadGrad let me know that enrolling in the ICS 235: Machine Learning Methods class would be a good fit for me. It would have been much harder to find this information on my own and so I am grateful to have been provided this tool. My favorite part of RadGrad, however, is the "Opportunities" tool. Finding courses to enroll in is a challenge in itself, but finding the right extracurriculars and opportunities is a whole different obstacle. It is crucial to find on the field experience to develop your skills especially in computer science. RadGrad presented me with a plethora of different extra events where I can expand my understanding such as "Cracking the Coding Interview" which will help me land a job in the CS field. My favorite one was the "Teaching or Tutoring" option where you have a chance to be a lab assistant and help teach a coding course. I personally believe that teaching something is one of the most effective method to solidify concepts on your own and is indicative of your understanding of what you know. I am very excited for the future thanks to RadGrad and have a clearer vision of what I need to be doing.

## 111-S22-30

Based on my limited experience with RadGrad completing the tutorial and initial setup, it looks to be an interesting and helpful student tool. Though I'm not big on social networking myself, I did like that aspect of it and being able to connect with likeminded people pursuing the same goals as yourself. I also really appreciate the roundup of student opportunities and internships that may have otherwise required some digging or word of mouth to find. Another feature I liked were that the courses had interest tags so you could see which courses may be relevant to your interests and pursuits. One thing I would like to see is classes added that are outside the ICS department, for example MATH 301 Intro to Discrete Mathematics, or maybe courses that are relevant/adjacent but from a different field, like LING 431 Computational Modeling. I also didn't quite like having to plot out all of my opportunities in order to complete the planner, I haven't looked too in depth on what each entails, and me participating in those opportunities would rely on my course load. Though it could stand to be updated a little more frequently (some pages were last updated July 2021 with linked articles maybe no longer existing), all in all it seems to be a useful site that I will take advantage of.



## 111-S22-31

RadGrad is a helpful tool that students can use to keep track of their college careers. The tutorial showed me everything I would ever need to know to use the website optimally. Under the explore tab, I was able to look at over 75 career interests, and I was able to select as many as I wanted. Once that was completed, the website guided me to the specific classes I should take in the future better to suit me for a career in that field. Under the planner section, all of the ICS courses offered at UH Manoa were linked up to the website, and I was able to set my four-year plan that lined up with the courses that my explore tab suggested me to take. Under the planner section, I could also select a few extra-curriculum events that could better open my eyes. There is also a level tab where I can progress through my years and see my other students at the same level. Overall this website is a beneficial tool that I plan to use more and more often as I progress through college. 



## 111-S22-32

RadGrad seems like a very beneficial resource for STEM students here at UH Manoa, from being able to keep track and progress of the classes we're currently in and will be taking in the future; to being able to see internship opportunities, as well as career paths. Everything is practically laid out in front of us, I really like how we can see class reviews, the students response are very detailed, and give myself and other students everything we need to mentally prepare ourselves for what to expect. The internship and career opportunities are great, I didn't know STEM had this large of a community here at Manoa, there are lots of clubs here at Manoa that I didn't know about until I looked on RadGrad. A path towards success has been laid out for us through RadGrad, with plenty of opportunities and help, we the students are our biggest roadblock. As long as we work hard enough and try enough and ask for help when help is needed, there is no reason for any of us to fail. 

## 111-S22-33

My experience with RadGrad was overall a good one. At first I was confused and a little overwhelmed by the contents on the website. However, as I read the New User Tutorial carefully I realized that it was straight to the point. I found the tutorial very helpful and enjoyed the fun, simple, and easy to comprehend language that was used all throughout. Through this experience I got to explore a number of interests and was even able to discover interests I didn’t know I had. I also was able to learn about the different opportunities that were available to me and other goal-oriented students alike. RadGrad helped me set my goals and in a way gave me a head-start to the right career path. I enjoyed this experience and I am thankful that this resource is available to someone like me, a woman minority in STEM. 

## 111-S22-34

Completing Radgrad's introduction tasks was a useful experience. I found having to pick a couple career goals and being able to see their related skills to be quite interesting. It gave me an idea of what skills and subjects I should focus on. Being able to see a list of extracurricular opportunities were also helpful. It made it easier to get an overview of what maybe useful to create a well-rounded resume. My only critique is that entering my planned classes was a bit redundant. I've already done this with STAR, so I'm not sure what re-entering it on Radgrad accomplishes.

## 111-S22-35

I think radgrad is a pretty cool website for Uh Manoa students. I feel that it opens up a lot of opportunity to join events that you would have never known were happening. It also allows you to see the different career paths you could take as there are many different options. I enjoy the class options and the club options so that I can get a general idea of what I could join. The options of getting to se future classes is also important as we can see what each course covers.  I wish the website showed the prerequisites for each course so we could make the planning a bit easier. Overall the website is very beneficial to find opportunities and to explore the potential classes we may take.

## 111-S22-36

Radgrads Qual is to help undergraduates, particularly STEM degrees, to land a job in their careers. This Is a great opportunity for post-graduation careers especially since it is challenging for graduates to obtain a job from their college degree. This is seen from many people that have graduated and find it difficult to start their path from the beginning. In my experience using rad grad, it has showed me a vague view of all the careers and jobs I could get out of my current interests. It had first told me to choose interests and once I got to choose my careers, I was able to apply those to a specific job. Towards the end, I was able to build my degree planner that helps in organizing all my computer science classes in undergrad. Networking by connecting with people from inside and outside of companies and your university is a huge part in landing a job as well. Even in school, it is hard to find time to job search in since classwork takes up a lot of your day and maybe other activities like a part-time job may tire you out. Radgrad will attain to your interests through activities that can aid in building skill in your specific amuse. This may lead to a smooth path post graduation into a great career for individuals.  Also I was not able to add the internships to my degree plan, I am not sure why but I did add the courses and opportunities. 

## 111-S22-37

After using Radgrad, I found that there are actually a lot of ICS courses available for me to take. Although my degree doesn’t require very many of these courses, it is cool to see what is there. Some of these courses would be very interesting to take in the future as a possible elective. I can gain competency on the subject which will be beneficial to me for my future career. Learning how to code and do programming is very interesting to me, so taking this course was a good idea. I feel I will continue to learn and use code in the future, so having further ICS courses in my degree plan would make my plan a lot more beneficial to me. As for the opportunities, there is a lot available that I have never heard of before. Some of them really stood out to me, so I will most likely participate in them in the future. It also showed that there are opportunities that I can take just for fun or some that I can participate in over multiple semesters. These opportunities seemed very interesting to me, since they will give me a look into what my future could look like. I enjoyed using Radgrad because it gave me an idea of what the rest of my college years and future career could look like.

## 111-S22-38

I see Radgrad as a very useful tool to every student that is interested in coding. I would love to know this as soon as i started ICS 111 because its hard to find a motivation and people to talk to about this. I've been trying to find a community or resources that can give me more interest about coding because even now I'm not sure if this is what i want to do. RadGrad showed me the different career paths that i can go and there's lots of field i can go and now I'm confused on what i want to do, but i find it as a good thing because now i think i can explore lots of field and i can decide which one suits me the best.

## 111-S22-39

Before using RadGrad, I thought this was an app for programmings such as improving coding or ways to learn more about programming and coding. However, after watching the tutorial video, I realized this is for my future career which provides a lot of information and solutions for me in Computer Science major. I totally did not expect there are so much I can do in this major, such as software developer, game developer, and so on. The website gives very detailed information about what we can expect when we choose these courses and what we can learn throughout the course. One thing I like about this website is degree planner because I can get organized and plan for myself what I expect to study in the future. The website also shows many opportunities that can help students gain more experience in the programming field and explore their careers. Additionally, the reviews of previous participation also help because they help me to understand more about the experience and how effective these opportunities are. Another thing I like about this website is how they use my interests to give me the best fit for my future courses so that I did not have to be struggling with choosing random courses. 

## 111-S22-40

While RadGrad has helped me learn about the different subfields within computer science, it most importantly spurred my interest in virtual reality. Before using RadGrad, I was only interested in taking computer sciences courses because of my interest in UI/UX design. After using it, I have developed a new interest in virtual reality. Moreover, using RadGrad, has encouraged me to think more about my future career. Other than developing a new interest in virtual reality, choosing my courses in RadGrad has made me spend more time considering possible career paths. Although I am still unsure of what I want to do in the future, I at least somewhat have an idea now. Overall, RadGrad was helpful as it really did make me think about what courses I should be taking and why I am taking them. Most importantly, it encouraged me to take time and think about what I really want to do in the future. 


## 111-S22-41

Using the Radgrad website was a very helpful experience. I really enjoyed how organized it was and the tutorial was very helpful. Since it is able to connect with our school credits I was able to see what I have already completed and what I possibly might want to do in the future. My only issue did not have to do with the website, it was more of an issue caused by me not knowing what pathway I want to choose in my future. Thankfully, there are so many recourses available that I am excited to spend more time learning more about the options.
