---
title: ICS 314, Fall 21
sidebar_label: 314 F21
---

## Overview

Section 01: 19 students, 10 replies.  Section 02: 18 students, 8 replies Section 03: 19 students, 7 replies

Total: 56 students, 25 replies, 45%

## 314-F21-01

RadGrad seems like a pretty cool tool to use, although I think it would have been more useful to me earlier in my college career. I am not sure that using it now has taught me anything, but there are definitely lots of opportunities there that I would not have known about when I was a freshman. By now, my plans for this semester and the next are fairly locked down and then I graduate in the spring, so it is less helpful to know about other opportunities.

However, I am interested in the reviews of various classes functionality. I still have time to make changes to which electives I will take in the spring and this could help me with my decisions there. Beyond that, I could conceivably make time for some of the meetups listed there which would be of interest to me. Best of all, the progress tracker in each percieved area that would make you more desirable as a hire seems very helpful.

So all in all I am not sure that the site will greatly affect my degree experience, but I do think it is a great tool for the general use case and I am glad I have the chance to be a part of it and help refine it. I hope this carries over to the computer engineering students as well soon. I also hope that in the case this does become available to computer engineering students it will mean a greater integration between computer engineering and computer science so the computer engineering program can have a greater focus on computing technology in general.

## 314-F21-02

Planning for the future is a very difficult thing to do sometimes because sometimes its hard to see all your options and plan accordingly. Thankfully UH Manoa has RadGrad which has a lot of the different classes and activities that they have. It also recommends you to fill out your full college career and this helps a lot because you are able to see many different fields in computer science. When I first went into the RadGrad website it told me to fill out my schedule so that I would have good classes that would interest me and upcoming events that I could look into to attend to expand on new computer science information. I was very suprised the first time I took a look at the wide range of classes that they had a UH manoa. It goes from the basics, to learning specific languages and then harder classes such as cyber security or operating systems.

Some new things that I have found to be of interest is the networks class and internet saftey. I always thought it seemed interesting to learn how computers connect and how to keep safe when connecting to other computers and services. Also the amount of activities that you are able to attend outside of class time was very interesting because of the size and what type of activities they are. They had things like learning python to the google summer of code. In the end I think that it is a good idea for any incoming Ics student to at least try to fill the plans out even if you might not stick to that exact plan because they allow you to make changes. Also it gives you an overview of all the different type of things that you can do in the Ics program.

## 314-F21-03

RadGrad is an entry way into a world of computer science I had no idea was within my reach. There were many new interests and career interests to be explored. I had no idea the number of events that go on throughout the year. This is the biggest advantage of RadGrad, the exposure. I think so much happens in the computer world that I don’t know about and radGrad will give me exposure to these opportunities, if not just make me aware of them. While I am not quite confident in my skills yet, radGrad has given me the impression that it’s at least worth my time to check some of these events out. It was helpful in linking classes to my personal interests, so that when it comes time for registration, I have a couple of course numbers in the back of my head to pay a little more attention to. As far as career goals go, there is a lot to get excited about. I saw a couple interesting opportunities and was able to add them to my profile.

It was a bummer to not see anything specifically related to finance. Being so interested in the stock market, I think that would be a direction I’d want to pursue; though I can see how it can be closely related to machine learning and similar skills would be applied. In the future, perhaps radgrad could incorporate other majors so that students can collaborate all over campus and be involved with an even wider network of people. I think this radGrad program would have been a lot more helpful for me when I was first starting out, rather than only learning about it now. I would have liked the direction (as far as having an idea of an end goal) from the get go. I also have a little bit of a problem with the ICE score. While it would probably be a good thing for me, as far as leaarning new skills and actually meeting people in the computer community, I don’t feel like I have the time to achieve everything that was inserted into my plan. As someone who is trying to speed up graduation as
fast as possible, the amount of activities needed to achieve a perfect score seems a little daunting.

Overall, radGrad has been good for my exposure in the Computer Science world. I don’t think it will alter my college experience in a major way, but it has provided me with a few things to keep in the back of my mind. While I don’t feel necessarily inclined to follow through and complete every little thing from my radGrad page, I am left with some curiosity that will get me to some new events, which is something that would not have happened without this platform.

## 314-F21-04

Introduction I think RadGrad is totally rad. Corny jokes aside I genuinely do think that RadGrad is an invaluable program that should be introduced to all computer science students. Although it does seem a little overwhelming at first that should not be a deterrent from experiencing RadGrad. I thought I knew a good amount as to what is out there for computer science. I learned that there is something called Social Computing, this is an area where they study the interactions of social behavior and computational systems. I did not even know that was a thing until I went on RadGrad.

Full Stack Developer While going through RadGrad I figured I should check out some Java Script/Html type of things since I am taking a class in that area. Following that line of interest, I happen to stumble upon something called a full stack developer. A full stack developer is someone who is able to handle both the front and back end of a website. I have not learned too much of how the back end of a website works but, since taking ICS314 it has piqued my interest in learning about how to develop web applications as a whole.

Linux While being involved in the back-end development of web applications I happened to come across Linux in RadGrad. I have always heard about Linux but never really investigated it until now. On the opportunity page, I found a section about Linux and how you can learn about it in five days which is not much time at all. Yes, I could have found this if I searched google. What RadGrad offers that google does not is a tailored experience for computer science majors.

Microsoft Azure An interesting career skill that I found in RadGrad was Microsoft Azure. This is a cloud computing service that provides hosting services for web applications, databases, and other things of that nature. The only reason why I investigated this was because of learning about Linux. It is crazy how some things just tie nicely into each other like this. There are other cloud computing systems like AWS(Amazon Web Service) and GCP(Google Cloud Platform). Each has its own way of doing things but essentially they all have the same function.

Final Thoughts I do believe that RadGrad has contributed to helping me have a better degree experience. I was able to learn about a bunch of new and already known fields in career, opportunity, and interest. RadGrad is definitely a tool every computer science major should utilize. The strength in RadGrad comes from the fact that it is able to ease the process of learning what is out there for people like us. Yes, we can google everything but convenience is a product that is attractive to all. Especially when we live in a time where information is a problem because it can be too overwhelming.

## 314-F21-05

The Radical Graduate

It’s pretty radical to graduate, I hope to do it myself one day, and one tool that could potentially help me do so is RadGrad. It is an experimental web service for UH Manoa ICS students, and soon to be available for other majors such as computer engineering. In the age of computer learning, with laulima, discord, zoom, slack, UH Stars plus all the individual class pages, you might as well have one more educational digital service to your life. So, what does RadGrad have to offer that the other sites do not? Well for one it has a review system so you can tell everyone about your favorite (or least favorite) ICS courses. There are also a variety of tools to help you stay on track with your curricular and extracurricular activities.

The site overall felt better than the html based web pages we made in class last week. It was able to automatically tell me which classes I had taken within the UH system. I have heard if you have a lot of non-UH classes this can be a little more time consuming. The homepage suggested that I update several pages to get my RadGrad profile more current. It had me fill out reviews on classes I have taken and add classes towards a goal of completing my ICS degree. It was similar to UH Stars in that regard, except it allowed for extracurricular activities to be added to your schedule as well.

This feature allows you to keep track of potential academic opportunities that you might want to pursue in the future, as well as helps you discover new activities and interests that you might not have heard of before. Now I gotta be honest, I did have a few issues with RadGrad holding me hostage with its suggestions. I had added all the opportunities that I realistically thought I might be interested in, but I was still getting suggested to add more to strengthen my profile. At some point I may have had to add a few things I knew I was never going to do in order to fully strengthen my profile. At least it is a nice reminder of all the opportunities I have as a student at UH manoa.

I’m not sure that I would use RadGrad if it weren’t for the extra credit, but I think it might be a nice tool for those students who like to plan things ahead. In the age of data and information, I think it is important to offer a variety of ways for a student to plan their success. I am not entirely sure what makes RadGrad all that different from the other sites we have for school, but I’m sure there are students out there who can find it useful. It can be hard to stay focused and easy to forget about a class, school program or activity. I think RadGrad’s intention is to help you keep those classes and programs in mind, as well as learn about other people’s experiences in those classes or activities. I haven’t quite fully been able to comprehend exactly what else you’re supposed to use it for.

## 314-F21-06

What is RadGrad [RadGrad](https://www.radgrad.org/) is a site that helps UH Manoa students in computer science find interests, career goals, opportunities, and classes pertaining to their majors. Not to mention, students can build social networks, become more experienced and confident, improve their resumes, and plan their futures with the use of RadGrad. I was amazed by all that RadGrad offered when I began my journey through the site.

My Experience

Courses, Interests, Careers The first thing I did after I created a RadGrad account was look through the different ICS courses the RadGrad course explorer contained. I was surprised to find that there were 106 different ICS courses listed. Most of these courses are new to me and encompass topics including data science, artificial intelligence (AI), software engineering, security, and machine learning. For instance, there is a class on deep learning, which involves machine learning, AI, and neural networks. I'm taking an introductory course to machine learning this semester, so its exciting to see how machine learning can be used in upper-level courses. After looking through the courses, I also checked the interests and careers provided by RadGrad and learned about programming languages I didn't know before, such as Ruby and Swift. However, what struck me the most was the opportunities section provided by RadGrad.

Opportunities I've always had difficulties adding extracurriculars to my resume, so the opportunities section of RadGrad caught my interest right away. When I looked into the opportunities, I found many local ones I could take advantage of, including [ACM Manoa](https://acmanoa.github.io/), [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/) and [Code for Hawaii](http://www.codeforhawaii.org/). I'd actually never known about most of these activities before, and I may not ever have if it weren't for RadGrad, so I'm thankful I did.

Planner After finding interests, courses, careers, and opportunities through RadGrad, I learned about about one of its most convenient features: the RadGrad planner. In this planner, I can choose when I participate in different courses and opportunities and organize all of this information in one place so I can keep track of it and change it when needed.

On a side note, I discovered that I can even add internships to my planner. From what I've heard, internships are one of the most important parts of getting a job after college, so I'm hopeful I'll be able to add some to my planner eventually. It's great that RadGrad provides so many features!

Use RadGrad To conclude, RadGrad is an extremely helpful site providing much needed guidance to computer science students from the University of Hawaii at Manoa. If you're a UH Manoa student wanting to get your life together, use RadGrad. You'll be *grad* you did.

## 314-F21-07

My Thoughts on RadGrad RadGrad is a site for computer science and computer engineering students focused on helping them navigate through their college career and find courses, opportunities, and activities that fit their interests and career goals.

RadGrad is a really nice site where you can find various courses and opportunities based on your interests. It showed me many new interests related to computer science that I didn’t know about before. I liked how when I chose an opportunity it also showed me related courses, interests, and career goals. Through it I was able to find many opportunities that I haven’t heard about before. What I enjoyed most about this site is the Career Goals page where there’s descriptions and videos of various careers in the software field. I believe it will definitely help me in finding a job that I am interested in.

I feel that RadGrad is not used enough to network and communicate with other people, but rather a site to find different resources and opportunities. I wish that there would have been more information on available internships as when I looked on that page, there was nothing there. It was also tough to have to create my “course plan” because I’m already a senior so having to put many opportunities in a span of two semesters seemed kind of pointless, but I guess doing so also gave me an idea of possible experiences I can take even if I won’t participate in all of them.

Conclusion I had a good experience using RadGrad and I think its important to start using it when you start of your college career in the field of technology. Now that I am about to graduate, there were a lot of experiences that I wish I knew about through using RadGrad that I was unaware of before. There are a few technical things that I think should be upgraded or changed, but overall it is a good site to look for new software opportunities and to learn more about what your interests are and maybe even find some new ones.

## 314-F21-08

t can be hard to see the meaning of all the small things you learn everyday. However, if you look back a year or two it can be easier to see the bigger steps. Radgrad can work as an inverse to this sort of thinking, where clear goals make the small things you learn everyday both meaningfull and interesting. If you take a picture and divide it into a hundred pieces, it is usually not as fascinating. The same is relevant for learning. Even if some topics are less interesting, you see through this tool that they can be necessary to end up where you want to be.

The Branches of Computer Science As I looked through the different subjects in Radgrad, it struck me how diverse computer science really is. Everything from robotics to game design have a lot of similarities. This is essential for being able to check out the different branches of computer sciencem without having to fully commit to one single branch early on. All subjects can help you in some way, regardless of which field you end up in. For instance, if you learn about computer vision, it can be used in self driving cars, or to develop a game on a VR headset.

Discoveries From before I knew that I wanted to look more into subjects related to data science, such as machine learning and big data. However, I also found a few subjects that would be fun to try out. An example is game design, where I could apply some of my creative characteristics and combine them with what I have learned from the three years of my MSc in control engineering.

Helping my degree On one hand, I am an exchange student, so I will probably not use this tool after my year in Honolulu is over. On the other hand, Radgrad showed me some interesting opportunities and subjects that I will remember going forward. It would have been a usefull tool to have back at my home university, especially during the first couple of years studying.

## 314-F21-09

The first time I heard about radgrad was from an email I got after I took ICS 111 notifying me about how I should do things to gain more experience coding. I honestly didn’t know what that ment or how I was supposed to gain more experience. Where was I supposed to go to gain more “experience”. So…I just ignored it. I’m actually a math major, so I figured it doesnt apply to me. It’s kind of shocking how much it has changed since then. Now it seems like a more cohesive idea that actually could be useful in planning out my classes.

Signing into radgrad was painless and I was immediately greated by a bunch of high priority tasks. The interests section was ok, I didn’t really see anything that caught my eye, again, since I’m not an ICS major, this is probably not surprising. But what really impressed me was the career goals and courses. The career goals opened my eyes to the multitude of posibilities that ICS is capable of. Many of these career paths were unknown to me till that moment. I actually found a decent ammount of careers that I wouldn’t mind exploring better. Courses was also an eye opener. The courses page didn’t just give a list of courses, it also gave a good description of the course and how said course could benefit me along my degree path. I also found a good ammount of classes that if time allows, I wouldn’t mind taking. I would say the most surprising class to me, was the 400 level ICS psychology course. I’m honestly curious how those two ideas can complement each other. They seem like two totally
different ideas. Opportunities was also interesting, I found a few things I wouldn’t mind trying out/learning.

I think radgrad has improved so much over the few years. I can see how radgrad would be very helpful for students trying to piece together their class schedule. It offers class information, how said class can help them fufill their goals and it gives students a place to find oppertunities to expand their experience in coding. It really cuts down on the confusion and uncertainty associated with class registration. I wish this was a thing that all schools had implemented a while ago. It would have helped me decide on my goal a lot sooner. Not knowing what I can use my degree for was a big contributing factor to my uncertainty in college.

## 314-F21-10

Navigating through college to me is like driving a car. I don’t have a permit, I’m on the freeway, my brakes are broken, and I’m driving a 2001 Toyota Corolla. I’m require having foresight of my near and far future while trying to pass my classes that are already giving me a big enough migraine to split my skull in half. Bottom line it is not fun. Me two years ago was right to not be excited for college. I still have little time to enjoy doing what I want and little energy to spend doing the work I want. I will take any help I can get big or small. Radgrad is an web application that helps ICS students classes. Recently I finally got to try it, after hearing it sparingly from emails and teachers. I find it kind of strange why this kind of application wasn’t described to me more in depth in the past. I think has the potential to be a very helpful tool. I don’t want to sound rude or harsh about this program since I didn’t make it and the people who did, did a great job making it. But
there are some quirks I have with it.

First, the program seems to have little exposure. Apart from the emails and professors who very briefly mention the program I wasn’t explain to at all that it was a planner. I only figured out what kind of application it was after using it. I think the fact that it is a planner should be the main selling point. But the fact that it is a planner is also a downside. It has very similar functionality like Star except that it is more focus and oriented for ICS students. It has a lot of features I wish Star had. So, its presence is needed and justified. But at the same time, I wish I didn’t need to log into a separate website to use its tools. There were also some glaring bugs, I ran into during my usage. I didn’t even use the web app for long and I had already encountered some bugs. They weren’t extremely frustrating to work around but they did still pose an issue. Another thing was that clicking the logo didn’t send me back to the student home page but back to the Radgrad homepage. I
thought this was an oversight since clicking on the logo often brings people back to what their homepage is.

I am aware that Radgrad does have an internship that allows students to work on it and help improve the site for the better. I think this is great and it gives a lot of students to work on something that is bigger than themselves. Although I personally, will not be going for this internship, I think those who are will be helping the UH ICS community a lot. Radgrad has a lot of potential to help students get through the gauntlet that is college. My only wish is that Star would implement the same type of features that Radgrad has. I know Star is managed differently and I know this probably won’t happen. Since Star is used much more often since it is the registrar. My favorite features that Radgrad has is giving more information on what ICS classes do and the opportunities, like the hackathons, internships, and jams. Those two I think are the two biggest things that Star lacks that Radgrad has. But my biggest grip with Radgrad is that it doesn’t have the answers to my next test. If they
added this feature I’m certain student usage would skyrocket.

## 314-F21-11

First Impressions on RadGrad My first encounter with RadGrad was not through the ICS 314 class that I am currently taking now but was actually through the ICS 211 course that I have taken in the past about one year ago. I was taking the course with Professor Moore and I think he is also one of the main developers of the RadGrad website. During that time I also went through the same RadGrad New User tutorial in which I needed to create my account and complete the high priorities at the time. At that time, I was still on the edge of whether or not I wanted to commit to pursuing a degree in computer science. Therefore, seeing this website at that time helped me to see what kind of interests I had matched up with the courses or opportunities out there. At that time, it also helped take some of the uneasiness off my shoulders because I thought that going into computer science means there are only careers related to coding. I gained new insight into how much of a variety computer science can
offer.

Discoveries through RadGrad Since I had used RadGrad in the past, I was able to put in my interests, career goals, courses, and opportunities at the time. Looking at the page now it is like I'm looking at the history of myself from the past and what kinds of interests that I had back then. It was interesting to see what interests I put in the past and compare them to the interests that I put in now. In the past, I was still new to computer science since I had only taken two ICS courses (ICS 111 and ICS 211). The options that I selected were more likely taken at a glance to see what fit my interests the most at the time but not thinking deeper in how it ties into computer science as a whole. I have expanded my knowledge about computer science after taking multiple classes after ICS 211. Therefore, I can get a better sense of what kind of things I preferred although I still have many more courses to go to.

An interest that I chose in the past but not anymore is AI. I was interested in AI in the past because I thought "wow, that sounds cool, creating artificial intelligence?"  Now, I am still intrigued by the idea of AI however the idea is very daunting to me. The idea of "flexible rational agents that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chance of success at an arbitrary goal" seems extremely advance. I feel that I am not ready for that kind of expertise but I am not closed off to it either. An interest that stayed the same from the beginning till now is Sustainability. I feel that sustainability is a high priority in my life and something that I am more than willing to pursue in the future. So I am kind of proud of myself for selecting this in the past and maintaining this interest now. An interest that was not here in the past but added now is Computer Architecture. After joining the computer science program, I learned that I want to know more about the
structures of computers and how it all comes together to make a functioning computer. Therefore, I am looking forward to understanding the functionality, organization, and implementation of computer systems in the future. With RadGrad, I can select classes that are more directed towards my interests.

Continue to use RadGrad?  When I first used RadGrad, I was still young in the program and did not know much about what kinds of opportunities were out there. I selected my interest but did I know what was going on? Now that I am in ICS 314, I have a better understanding of the scene and what kinds of things I can be looking for. I feel that since I know more of what I want, I can use RadGrad to help me join different groups or participate in different activities to further benefit myself for the future industries. I am hoping to find more opportunities geared towards sustainability, graphic design, or within the game design realm. I can't wait to see what kind of path I will lead by the end of my college career with the help of RadGrad.

## 314-F21-12

Why use RadGrad? At first I did not know either and thought this exercise to be merely a clever ploy to increase the number of students on the platform but after going through the tutorial and seeing the wealth of information and connecting opportunities, I quickly realized that this was not just an alternate version of STAR geared towards computer science students, it was actually STAR on steroids with a booster shot of LinkedIn.

Started from the beginning The whole process of completing my RadGrad profile was fairly intuitive and the tutorial provided illustrated the key points. While going through the interests explorer, the descriptions of the various disciplinary areas introduced to me a few interests I would like to pursue in the future that I did not even know existed. The career goals explorer was really helpful too as it showed what umbrella category different careers fell in to. However, the course explorer did not really give me much additional information per se as I already have obsessively looked over the ICS catalog while degree planning previously. One lovely point though was that the descriptions of all of the courses were there and easy to see, unlike the degree planning sheets available on the UHM website. Lastly, the opportunities section introduced me to a lot of extracurricular activities that I either barely heard of or never heard of before; I will be definitely joining a few of
those. All of these sections had really useful filtering systems like “In Profile” versus “Not in Profile”, course division level, and the sortings.

(1) Message Request I quite enjoyed perusing through the community tab as it showed the students, related faculty members, and advisors in the different sections. You can also click on the names of a student or professor and see their contact information, their UH e-mail; possibly implementing a way to either e-mail from RadGrad or a messaging system could be useful for making those connections easily and on the same platform instead of relegating to e-mail. The upcoming events were also a great section of RadGrad as not only did it show the dates and deadlines of the various events but also the interests applicable to them. I also like that the careers, interests, and courses all relate to each other and show a sort of ‘trajectory’, like showing what courses can apply to what interests and what interests apply to what careers. It is very important to plan out the courses and how they align with your future goals as failing to plan is a plan for failure, a la Benjamin Franklin.

Imperfectly perfect Indeed, RadGrad is a very useful tool for computer science students here at UHM. However, I believe all websites and applications will inherently have their own flaws and can always be improved. Firstly, as the screenshot above shows, it feels like RadGrad is ‘roasting’ my career goals by just saying they are ‘OK’ and not good nor excellent. Another issue I found is that for the courses it was only ICS courses and not other departments, for example I have to take a few mathematics courses for the Data Science track of the Computer Science BS degree and it would have been good to have that planning ability too. Besides these few finicky points, overall RadGrad was easy to use and had a very clean layout that was easy on the eyes and sleek looking. I would for sure recommend this to any computer science student that is at UHM as if I was not such an obsessive course planner, this would truly came in handy when it came to planning semesters and also the respective
courses for specified interests and career goals.

## 314-F21-13

Why RadGrad?  Usually, a fair amount of students struggle with what they want to do after when they graduate. The same goes for me, of course. I decided to major in computer science because I love to spend time on my computer. But the thing is, I did not consider what kind of job or career that I would like to do in my future. Also, as a newbie, I had no clue where to ask and get information about my curiosity. And thankfully, the RadGrad was there for me.

RadGrad provides various opportunities that I can take of. For instance, it suggests a variety of community events, and it helps me to plan my degree program more effectively. These two features are exactly what I wanted from the beginning of my education. I always wanted to join a certain community and develop interaction skills with like-minded students. RadGrad provides me a various of communities that I can join and it makes a lot easier to see what community is the best fit for me.

As an undergraduate student, I think RadGrad is a great tool to use to adjust my planning for my education and target my career goal. Using the planner and reading the reviews for the course gave me further insight into my degree plan. Moreover, exploring the career goals gives me an interest in a specific career. I like how it recommends the related courses and related opportunities when I choose certain career goals. I believe that the RadGrad, the intelligent supporter, makes me easier to get ready for my future career.

## 314-F21-14

After completing the RadGrad New User tutorial I have a new perspective on computer science. From the tutorial, I learned that there are many different opportunities at UH for computer science that I didn't know were available to us before. I also learned more about what classes I plan to take for next semester and also the “ICE” score gave me a good gauge as to how I am doing so for my college career.

From completing this RadGrad tutorial I have learned about many different interests and opportunities that I would like to take advantage of before I graduate. One opportunity that I discovered from finishing this tutorial was the hackathons that take place during the semester. After reading about them from RadGrad, I would like to take part in one of them before I graduate because it seems very interesting and it might be something that will help me in the future while pursuing my career.

In conclusion, I think that RadGrad is a great tool for college students like me who are not very aware about the opportunities that are available to them. I wish that I had learned about this sooner as I would have taken part in more of these opportunities to help me gain more coding experience and also broaden my connections. In my opinion, I think that RadGrad would most likely help me have a better degree experience because of all the opportunities that it provides information about.

## 314-F21-15

RadGrad is a convoluted version of STAR. The RadGrad website seems a little clunky and cluttered. A lot of information is thrown to a new user and it can get confusing to follow. The system is similar to STAR, a class registration system at UH Manoa. Both systems help students plan future classes, STAR is for all classes in the UH system, and RadGrad is specifically for ICS classes. However, students can’t register for the classes through RadGrad, only plan for them.

RadGrad is tailored to students who are trying to be software engineers. There are many opportunities on the site for students pursuing software engineering, but not as much for security students. Cyber security students shouldn’t be limited to two opportunities, ACM and ASECOLabs, to gain innovation points. The lack of opportunities could attest to the quality of the security courses in the ICS department.

I do like the concept of RadGrad since it helps benefit computer science students in preparing for the future. It is helpful to see what opportunities are available in the department even if there is not a lot. Also, the level system is a nice feature that can help incentivize students to close their rings. It would have been better if there was clearly articulated writing that described what is needed to get to each level. However, in production, the site is a little confusing and requires a lot of work to set up. A lot of work already goes into setting up STAR, which is a requirement to register for classes, so why do more work than needed. If RadGrad were able to get the planned classes from STAR, the system would work more efficiently.

## 314-F21-16

First things first, my initial intentions of joining RadGrad was to get extra credit for ICS 314, straight-up. I thought nothing of it other than it being an extra credit opportunity which led me completing all the other steps for extra credit(except for the survey part where filled it out after the due date) and writing this essay. And you know what? I think that’s okay, sometimes in life you need a bit of incentive to push you to do something that can benefit you in the future.

Getting Started with RadGrad Getting started with RadGrad was a rather painless process. After following the links on the ICS website, I landed at the RadGrad homepage. I was suprised to find out that RadGrad was integrated with our actual UH accounts, so we could log in using our UH credentials to gain access to the website instead going through a whole other process of filling personal information and signing up for the website. This was great for me as it reduced the amount of time I needed in my quest for extra credit.

As I began to follow the RadGrad tutorial, I started realizing that there was more to this website than just extra credit. Because of its integration with the UH system, RadGrad is able to take all the classes we’ve taken and lay it out much like how STAR would do it. It really is like another version of STAR that’s catered to the students in ICS and Computer Engineering departments. Like STAR, we are able to add classes to our student plans and generally plan the future of our “careers”. The reason I say career, is because not only are we able to add future classes, we’re also able to add future jobs or opportunities to our plan as a goal for us to go for.

The Future of RadGrad The way that RadGrad is set up leads me to believe that it is eventually supposed to be a place where graduates from ICS and Computer Engineering can all come together and collaborate with each other. With RadGrad you can find other students who have similar interests and maybe one day in the future it may lead to something.

And that’s the thing about RadGrad, while it may not seem too useful now, in the future I can see it being a very useful tool for graduates who do want to collaborate with fellow alumni.

## 314-F21-17

What I Gained After learning and exploring RadGrad, I got a better understanding of what is offered at University of Hawaii at Manoa for students pursuing computer science degrees. Some of the top things I found interesting were the courses and clubs. Knowing what I want to pursue as a career after I graduate, can persuade me to look for classes and courses that support this career. Getting a job as a software engineer for a medical device company is my dream career, however, I have also recently become interested in Augmented and Virtual reality. Going through the RadGrad tutorial provided me with lots of information about what is offered at the school that can help me reach my dream career. I saw that UH at Manoa offers classes such as Lava Lab and ICS 486(VR/AR Programming). Lava Lab is a research lab that offers skills in data visualization and virtual and augmented reality. ICS 486 is a class that teaches programming for AR and VR. I think taking this course and participating in
the lab will allow me the chance to gain as much knowledge and experience in AR VR programming, which will be beneficial in the future. Some other courses I found intriguing are ICS 452(Robotic) and 464 (HCI I) because they can provide me with the skills I need for software in robotics and human-computer interaction. These classes will be very helpful because my dream career requires me to program robotics such as surgical robots and to understand human-computer interaction because what I work on will have to be user friendly. A club I will be joining is the SWITCH-UHM club. The club supports women in Information, technology and computing at the university and I never knew it existed before. I think it is important to be surrounded by people that support you and encourage you and I think it even more important to be around people that may be in the same situation such as the same ICS classes. Venting about a program or ICS class to my friend that is a nursing major or to my mom can be
helpful but also has its cons. They can support me but they don’t sometimes fully understand why I am frustrated or how to help me. Being around friends that are in the same degree plan and/or took the same classes can be helpful because they can give their perspective and it will be related to the issue. I look forward to joining this club and to meeting and making friends that are also fellow computer science chicas.



RadGrad definitely is helpful for a better degree experience and an overall experience at UH at Manoa. I did not know half of the clubs and opportunities that the school offered until I saw them on RadGrad. I also got a better understanding of the courses I want to take in the upcoming because I was able to learn about them and what they teach. This helped me determine what classes I should take to better prepare me for my future career. Going through the RadGrad tutorial had helped me and I would recommend this experience to other students.

## 314-F21-18

Radgrad is an awesome friendly user interface that includes, career goals explorer, interest explorer, opportunities explorer, and more. Regard allows developing a student profile based on interests and opportunities. I enjoyed learning about the different ICS courses UH Manoa has to offers. RedGrad also provides a simple way to add courses to the degree plan, which helps organize courses by semester and year. Furthermore, RedGrad posts new events and inform what is the upcoming event. I believe joining events can help make a different community connections, and learn about different computer science-related jobs or opprtunities.

Choosing computer science as my major was incredibly easy because I always loved solving puzzles and playing video games and saw a computer science major as an opportunity to learn how to design and develop my own games. RedGard open my eyes to the different opportunities a computer science degree can offer. One of the interesting career goals I found on RadGrad was Robotic. I used to believe that Robotics involved just mechanical engineering and electrical engineering but was surprised to find out thanks to RadGrad that it also involves computer science.

## 314-F21-19

RadGrad’s Path to a Job 28 Sep 2021

Ever since I was little, I always thought that getting good grades was the most important factor in getting a good job. During high school I barely joined any clubs or attended many events that my school held, since I would always prioritize my studies. Going into college I thought the same way, only studying to get A’s while not joining any clubs or honor societies that were offered. However, I soon found out about the significance of being a part of different organizations and societies as well as obtaining real world experience. Through the University of Hawaii at Manoa’s RadGrad website, I was able to gain a deeper understanding of what I need to do in order to be in the best position to get a good job out of college. RadGrad denoted three important aspects to grow in which were innovation, competency, and experience. In my case, my competency score was very high, since this was based on grades, however both my innovation and experience categories were zero. The innovation category
was based on taking part in activities such as research projects or hackathons, while the experience category was based on having internships or business plan competitions. This was very striking to me since it clearly showed me that grades are only one third of the whole picture and what I was lacking in.

New Discoveries Through RadGrad

Through RadGrad I learned more about different types of computer science related career goals and opportunities. I was able to choose different tags that I was interested in to help me filter through jobs that I might be attracted to. Some tags that I added were algorithms, machine learning, data science, and artificial intelligence. Through these tags, it recommended the career goals of AI/machine learning engineer and data scientist. I had heard of data scientists before but it was the first time I heard of the job called AI/machine learning engineer. It also gave a lot of background information of the types of work this career would deal in as well as noting the other professions they would work closely with. RadGrad also had many different types of opportunities listed to choose from and learn more about. I feel many students always ask about different activities they can be a part of to better themselves and their skills, this is a really good place to find such activities. I
found that Kaggle, which is an online data science and machine learning competition, might be a nice opportunity for me since it involves many of my interests and is related to the field I want to go into.

Better Degree Experience with RadGrad I think RadGrad is an excellent website for helping undergraduate as well as graduate students to navigate through their years at college in order to get a good job right after. It allows students to plan out the courses and activities they want to partake in and gives an estimate of whether their plan is an efficient or inefficient plan. It also shows different courses that are offered at the University of Hawaii at Manoa related to their career goals and interests to help them take the classes that will deal in the specific field they want to learn more about. I personally think RadGrad will help me to have a better degree experience. This is because I will know which classes I should be taking and which opportunities will be most beneficial to take part in with regards to the field that I am interested in. I also will be able to track my progress of being in the best position I could be in after I graduate and what I still need to work on.

## 314-F21-20

Learning radGrad 30 Sep 2021

In my freshman year at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, radGrad was first introduced to aid students in attaining their computer Science degree. However, at the time, the website was not covered all that much and it seemed as if the program was relatively new. Over the next few semesters, I would not use nor even hear about the radGrad program until about three years later when I took ICS 314.

In this class, Professor Philip Jhonson is adamant about letting students know about it and getting students to use the program. Although he did not make it mandatory for his class, he made it known that he believes this will help students in not only getting their degree, but also getting a high level job after graduating.

This is the only class that provided detailed tutorials on the radGrad program and how it can help you by showing available classes as well as available opportunities that will help students gain experience in their field. Because my professor decided to offer extra credit for at least trying out radGrad, I decided to go through the tutorial and learn how it can help me.

I discovered that radGrad is actually pretty good for seeing what classes are offered in the computer science field. Not only are the class descriptions offered on the radGrad website far more informative than the description found on the school registration website, but it also has student reviews of the class that allow students to make more informed decisions on their class choices.

What I found most appealing about the radGrad program was the fact that it had a lot of opportunities listed ranging from internships to school and community activities. This is particularly helpful for me because I wanted to take a summer internship for the past couple summers, but could not find one.

This summer, I plan to use radGrad to find internship opportunities for myself and perhaps participate more in activities related to my degree. Knowing how helpful radGrad can be now, I plan on using it for the rest of my attendance at UH

## 314-F21-21

My Experience on RadGrad 30 Sep 2021

My Experience on RadGrad

RadGrad is a website that helps students to learn more informations to determine their degree paths or career paths. It offers much information that is useful to build on a student’s academic path or career paths includes interests, courses, and extracurricular activities. After finding out the courses and extracurricular activities that corresponding to their interests, students will know better about their career paths. There is much information about extracurricular activities includes programs, projects, and also their contact informations. It will be helpful for people who trying to look for the opportunities on using their knowledges to solve the real life problems.

Once student login to RadGrad, there are three tags in the home page that says high priority, medium priority, and completed. In the high priority, it will ask students to select their interests, courses, and extracurricular activities. In the beginning, I just try to fill out those high-priority tasks. After I added my interests to my profile, I noticed those interests will be lightened in the related courses and extracurricular activities. So it tells you what classes or extracurricular activities you might want to participate in based on your interests. It is really helpful, especially for those people who do not have a clear career goal. I have not known many careers in the computer field, the only three jobs I know when I was a freshman in college is software engineer, programmer, and web developer. In RadGrad, I learn a new career named ux designer, which is design web application based on users’ needs. I also find out the courses and extracurricular activities that related to
this career.

After I added all interests, courses, and extracurricular activities that I might interest in. I started to plan my schedule for the future. In the planner, I do not feel I will be able to put all the courses and extracurricular activities that I interest in into the planner. So I remove some of them and add some of them to balance the activities in the planner. After I finished all the tasks in high priority, I did find out some possible career paths that I can go for based on my interest. It is helpful for me to clear my career path. I think it will be helpful for people to learn more information includes contact information about the extracurricular activities and courses that can strengthen people’s ability to achieve their future goal.

## 314-F21-22

RadGrad First Impression 30 Sep 2021

RadGrad aims to “provide students, faculty, and advisors with an alternative perspective on the undergraduate degree program”. The alternative perspective is called the RadGrad Degree Experience and it replaces GPA as a single metric of success with a three component metric called myICE. The ICE stands for innovation, competence, and experience. In my opinion, however, the “myICE” component is slightly out of reach for students who are introduced to RadGrad in their junior year, like me.

I noticed there is a bottleneck situation where close to 570 students are at level two of the 6 levels on RadGrad(at the time of writing there are 983 registered in total ), another 300 hundred students sit at level 1 and merely 6 students are level 6. Perhaps this is by design, but I think this is due to the grading system on RadGrad.

Each of the three myICE component are capped at 100(you can go over the limit). At first the ring is greyed out, that means you have to put opportunities into your planner for the ring to fill up. For each validated opportunity, you will be awarded points correlated to the opportunity and the ring will be colored in accordingly. For example, if I completed the ACM ICPC opportunity I get 15 innovation points and my innovation ring is colored in based on that 15/100 ratio. So far it makes sense and the innovation component is relatively easy to achieve, if you pick 4 opportunities each worth 25 points, you can close it relatively easy.

The problem begins at the competency ring. An A for a class gets you 10 points, B gets you 8, and anything below a C is 0. I feel like that is a big discrepancy but that isn’t the biggest concern. One problem is how awarding the points work. All of the classes below ICS 300 level give 0 competency points(at least the one’s I have in my planner are like this), so your ring won’t budge if you have them in you planner, but suppose I receive an A, would I still be awarded 10 points? Then there are classes that are worth 6 points, if I get an A I would be awarded 10 points as stated, but does my ring close 6% or 10%?

Let us assume that no classes under 300 level courses provide you any points regardless of your grade letter and you receive 10 points for an A and it closes 10% of the ring for any 300+ courses. As a junior second year student, I only have 12 more classes that are above 300 levels to take. 10 points for an A means I need to pass 10 classes with that grade. Seems like this system emphasizes more on GPA then it was designed to.

Regardless of how the competency section works, the opportunities and a chance to build or enter a community exceedingly outweighs the confusion. RadGrad provides you first hand of everything that is happening at Manoa and even Hawaii. I might not be able to reach level 6 anytime soon or at all, but I am able to reach out to students that have become a level 6 elite and establish a network with them. Or perhaps just stay a plebe and connect to students at my level and build an army that will eventually become the elites’ bosses(jk, or maybe not). RadGrad is far from perfect but it is a great place to start for students to plan for their future.

## 314-F21-23

Starting this thing called "Career-Building" 30 Sep 2021

One piece of paper. One ticket for financial stability (hopefully).

Working toward a degree in college, the end game or end goal (aside from the unique experience of higher learning, of course) is to be hired for a good job, to lead you towards a good career – one that pays well, has nice benefits, has a pleasant work environment, has work that you’d want to do, and/or has you work with people who you’d want to work with. I feel like there are two factors to this: (1) applying for places to hire you, and (2) being prepared for places to hire you.

A potential employer, a potential employee. Trying to find a suitable fit.

To even obtain a job, you’d most likely need to apply – an employer is unlikely to reach out to you on their own, out of the blue. But, it can be difficult to know what employers are hiring or how to apply to them. It can also be difficult to find employers with entry-level positions that are a good fit for you (and likewise, positions where you’d be a good fit for them). For me, one of the biggest requirements is that I want to live and work on Oahu, here in Hawaii. People with experience in my field will often tell me that there are few opportunities for computer science / computer engineering majors here. At school, I was often advised to “keep my mind open” (which is, in fact, good advice that I don’t dispute); meanwhile, I didn’t receive much direction for finding those job opportunities here, other than that I’d have to keep an ear out or hear by word of mouth.

In my early years of college, I would often try to search for computer jobs in Hawaii through Google searches, just to see what’s out there. This didn’t give many results. In my later years of college, I had the confidence to try attending some of the College of Engineering’s Career Fairs, to try talking with local employers. I learned of many opportunities that I hadn’t known of before. Recently, I have also been told that LinkedIn is very helpful for professional networking, too.

If colleges could have a go-to website or something similar, where students could view and learn more about recommended employers in their fields, especially if there’s a filter option for localities (whether here or other home-states of students). The list of employers, filtered by engineering major, that the College of Engineering emails to students around Career Fair time is a great start, I feel. In fact, I found it sufficient for quite a while. The only reason I mention a “website or something similar” now is because I’ve recently caught wind of RadGrad, a project which is being worked on to aid students’ career pathway-building and help connect them to opportunities in their fields (ex. research project groups, competitions, community outreach programs).

“Opportunities”. A big word, a lovely idea, but where do we find them, and what are they good for?

On the topic of job-seeking as a college student/graduate, while finding places to hire you is one major concern, another major concern is being prepared for places to hire you. This is in terms of resume-building and interview preparedness, for example. They both involve a measure of communication skills, acquiring experiences that show great character-building and/or are relevant to your field, and demonstrating technical knowhow and interest related to your field.

For these, it can be difficult to know where to start. It can be daunting to try to find out. As a college student, especially around campus, you might hear of opportunities and events related to your field, but it’s still difficult to know what would be a good investment of your time, and time is something you won’t have a lot of.

RadGrad is a good example of an informational hub where students can view and read about opportunities related to their field. For example, I learned of research project groups, competitions, and other learning opportunities that I’d never heard of. I feel like these can be great for helping students build their resume of out-of-class learning and experiences.

Since RadGrad is tied to my school, it also shows my class schedule by semester so that I can schedule these opportunities throughout my time here. I think this can be a majorly helpful tool for students as long as it’s kept up-to-date in terms of the opportunities available. For example, at one point, I remember some pages on my school’s website were out-of-date, such as certain research project groups not being active anymore, and this made it difficult for students trying to find mentors to do their project credits with. I hope RadGrad helps students have better experiences.

## 314-F21-24

Computer Science at UHM and RadGrad 30 Sep 2021

Setting the Path to Graduation with RadGrad

There are many different courses listed in the ICS catalog for the University of Hawaii at Manoa. A Bachelor of Science in Computer Science is 51 credits (16 total courses). A Bachelor of Arts in Computer Sciences is also 51 credits (16/17 total courses), with 12 credits in an area of concentration (including a different discipline and/or elective ICS courses).In addition, there are BS in CS degrees with specific tracks (Data Science, Security Science). For Graduate Students, Master’s students must complete 31 credits (600+ w/up to 2 400-level courses). In short, all of these different degree offerings mean that the ICS department must offer courses for many groups of students with different interests. So, course offerings for upper-level (400+) are often staggered to fulfill the needs of the different student groups. RadGrad is an online tool that helps students keep track of their course completions, shows students what computer science-related extracurricular opportunities are
available and helps inform the ICS faculty what courses are of interest to the largest number of current students.

What I’ve Learned Through RadGrad

Students that are accessing RadGrad for the first time are guided through four main areas: Interests, Careers, Courses and Opportunities. By completing my profile, I was able to narrow down my topics of interest to those most relevant to the careers I found most interesting. I was able to see how many other students were also interested in the same topics and careers. I was pleasantly suprised by the large list of extracurricular opportunities. This was my first time hearing about many of these opportunities and it was nice to see all of them listed in one easy-to-access space.

RadGrad: Suggested Areas of Improvement

Before I mention areas I think could be improved in RadGrad, I’d like to discuss the parts I found to be very well put together. The design of the RadGrad site is visually appealing and the tutorial for completing a basic profile was easy to understand. The descriptions for the different topics of interest, career choices, ICS catalog courses, and opportunities were also well written.

In its current state, I might refer to RadGrad periodically to check on current opportunities. But the following areas would need to be improved if I were to use it more frequently:

Each course should have a tag associated with its frequency in offering (eg. every semester, fall/or spring only, every other year, not offered in the last 5* years). If a course is offered "every other year", it should also have an additional tag with the "year" in which it was last offered. (Note: 5 years is a placeholder. But courses that haven't been offered in a while should be flagged because either 1) they need to be offered soon or 2) removed from the schedule (so a student doesn't wait for it).  There should be an additional "Sort By" in Courses so that students see only courses associated with their desired degree (eg. BS in Data Science, BS in Computer Science, Masters in Computer Science).  As students are filling out the Planner, there should be an interactive tool or at least a pop-up document that shows the course requirements for a degree pathway (eg. BS in Data Science, BS in Computer Science, Masters in Computer Science). This will help students keep track of which
courses they must complete so that they know how much time they have for elective/fun courses. Otherwise, they may take the "fun" courses first and forget that they need to complete other courses to graduate on time.  The Opportunities should have a tag showing the dates available prior to the user clicking on "See Details." For example, ACM ICPC is offered in the Fall. So in addition to the tags "Algorithms" and "Application Development", it should have the tag "Fall semester".  As students are filling out the Planner, the tags for "Spring semester" and "Fall semester" should appear along with the Opportunities, Courses, and Internships so the student does not add the activity to the wrong semester.  Conclusion I think RadGrad has a lot of potential to become a useful tool for students. Especially during the pandemic, where access to academic counselors is limited. RadGrad is superior to the UH STAR system in helping students become aware of ICS specific related opportunities outside
of their regular coursework. I’m excited to learn that RadGrad exists and look forward to seeing how RadGrad evolves while I am a student!
