docs/users/f21/careerGoals.md, before:

---
title: Career Goals Explorer
sidebar_label: Career Goals
---

Currently, RadGrad has 20 different career goals related to Computer Science. The Career Goals Explorer looks very similar to the Interests Explorer.

![](/img/user-guide/f21/career-goals-explorer.png)


You can filter the career goals showing all of them, the ones in your profile, or the ones not in your profile.

You can sort them alphabetically, recommended based upon your interests, or by the most recent updated.

Lastly, you can search the names of the career goals by typing in the Search field.

Each career goal has a name, a brief description, and a list of associated interests. Interests that are in your profile are shown in green. If you want to learn more and add the career goal to your profile click the `See Details / Add to Profile` button.

For example, here is the Database Administrator details page.

![](/img/user-guide/f21/database-admin-details-page.png)
![](/img/user-guide/f21/database-admin-details-page2.png)

In the left-hand column we show the related:

* Interests
* Courses
* Opportunities

that share this career goal's interests.

In the right-hand column we show more information about the Career Goal:

* A brief teaser about the career goal. (Not all career goals have teasers.)
* The visible students who share this career goal. (You get to decide if you want to share your career goals with other RadGrad users.)
* The related faculty who share this career goal.
* The related advisors who share this career goal.

If you choose to add the Career Goal to your profile RadGrad will ask you if you want to add the career goal's interests to your profile.

![](/img/user-guide/f21/career-goal-add-interests.png)

You can choose which interests, if any, to add to your profile.

:::tip RadGrad walk-through
It's worth spending some time on the Career Goal Explorer. Read through the different Career Goals. If it is interesting to you click the Add to Profile button. If you add a career goal to your profile RadGrad will ask you if you want to add the career goal's interests to you profile also.

Choose three initial career goals. You can always change them later.
<hr/>
(Problems with this page? Email radgrad@hawaii.edu to let us know.)
:::

Now that we have some career goals in our profile, lets go back to the Home Page and take care of the next checklist item `Courses`.

![](/img/user-guide/f21/courses-checklist.png)

Click the `Courses Explorer` button.

Commit message:

New student walk-through checkpoint

docs/users/f21/careerGoals.md, after:

---
title: Career Goals Explorer
sidebar_label: Career Goals
---

Currently, RadGrad has 20 different career goals related to Computer Science. Career Goals represent professional outcomes that a student can pursue through the degree experience.

The Career Goals Explorer looks very similar to the Interests Explorer.

![](/img/user-guide/f21/career-goals-explorer.png)


You can filter the career goals showing all of them, the ones in your profile, or the ones not in your profile.

You can sort them alphabetically, recommended based upon your interests, or by the most recent updated.

Lastly, you can search the names of the career goals by typing in the Search field.

Each career goal has a name, a brief description, and a list of associated interests. Interests that are in your profile are shown in green. If you want to learn more and add the career goal to your profile click the `See Details / Add to Profile` button.

For example, here is the Database Administrator details page.

![](/img/user-guide/f21/database-admin-details-page.png)
![](/img/user-guide/f21/database-admin-details-page2.png)

In the left-hand column we show the related:

* Interests
* Courses
* Opportunities

that share this career goal's interests.

In the right-hand column we show more information about the Career Goal:

* A brief teaser about the career goal. (Not all career goals have teasers.)
* The visible students who share this career goal. (You get to decide if you want to share your career goals with other RadGrad users.)
* The related faculty who share this career goal.
* The related advisors who share this career goal.

If you choose to add the Career Goal to your profile RadGrad will ask you if you want to add the career goal's interests to your profile.

![](/img/user-guide/f21/career-goal-add-interests.png)

You can choose which interests, if any, to add to your profile.

:::tip RadGrad walk-through
It's worth spending some time on the Career Goal Explorer. Read through the different Career Goals. If it is interesting to you click the Add to Profile button. If you add a career goal to your profile RadGrad will ask you if you want to add the career goal's interests to you profile also.

Choose three initial career goals. You can always change them later.
<hr/>
(Problems with this page? Email radgrad@hawaii.edu to let us know.)
:::

Now that we have some career goals in our profile, lets go back to the Home Page and take care of the next checklist item `Courses`.

![](/img/user-guide/f21/courses-checklist.png)

Click the `Courses Explorer` button.
