docs/users/f21/planner.md, before:

---
title: Degree Experience Planner
sidebar_label: Planner
---

The degree experience planner allows you to plan your four year undergraduate experience.

Here's George's planner:

![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner1.png)
 If, like George, you don't have four years, click the `Add Year` button to add academic years to your plan.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner2.png)
The right-hand box has three tabs, opportunities (light bulb), courses (book), and Internships (coming soon). These tabs show the opportunities and courses in your profile.

Let's start with Opportunities. Click on an opportunity to open it up.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/acm-manoa-open.png)
You can drag the green pill ![Pill](/img/user-guide/f21/opportunity-pill.png)

Add you add opportunities to your plan your **myICE** points update. You can see your **myICE** points in the header.
![myICE](/img/user-guide/f21/myICE-points.png)
The number in the center is earned value the circle on the outside shows how many points you've planned.

Here's a view of George's plan after he's dragged several opportunities into his plan.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner3.png)
Now let's work on courses. Click on the Courses (book) tab.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner4.png)
Drag the blue course pill into the semester you plan on taking the course. You should probably only plan on taking 2 or 3 ICS courses per semester. When you drop the course in a semester it is removed from the choices on the right.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner5.png)

Commit message:

First draft of Fall 21 new student walk-through

docs/users/f21/planner.md, after:

---
title: Degree Experience Planner
sidebar_label: Planner
---

The degree experience planner allows you to plan your four-year **RadGrad Degree Experience** experience. Your goal should be a plan that gets you to a **myICE** score of 100 Innovation, 100 Competency, and 100 Experience points. You can earn Innovation and Experience points from Opportunities and Competency points from Courses.

Here's George's planner:

![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner1.png)
 If, like George, you don't have four years, click the `Add Year` button to add academic years to your plan.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner2.png)

This is your canvas for creating an exciting plan to get you to 100, 100, 100.

The right-hand box has three tabs, opportunities (light bulb), courses (book), and Internships (coming soon). These tabs show the opportunities and courses in your profile.

Let's start with Opportunities. Click on an opportunity to open it up.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/acm-manoa-open.png)
You can drag the green pill ![Pill](/img/user-guide/f21/opportunity-pill.png)

Add you add opportunities to your plan your **myICE** points update. You can see your **myICE** points in the header.
![myICE](/img/user-guide/f21/myICE-points.png)

The number in the center is earned value the circle on the outside shows how many points you've planned.

Here's a view of George's plan after he's dragged several opportunities into his plan.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner3.png)
Now let's work on courses. Click on the Courses (book) tab.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner4.png)
Drag the blue course pill into the semester you plan on taking the course. You should probably only plan on taking 2 or 3 ICS courses per semester. When you drop the course in a semester it is removed from the choices on the right.
![DEP](/img/user-guide/f21/degree-experience-planner5.png)
If you run out of courses in your profile, you can go back to the Courses Explorer and add more courses to your profile.

:::tip RadGrad walk-through
It's worth spending some time planning your **RadGrad Degree Experience**. The goal is to get to 100 Innovation, 100 Competency, and 100 Experience.
<hr/>
(Problems with this page? Email radgrad@hawaii.edu to let us know.)
:::

Next, let's share some information with other students. Click on the `Visibility` menu item.
