docs/users/new-student/courses.md, before:

---
title: Courses Explorer
sidebar_label: Courses
---

Currently, RadGrad has 106 courses related to Computer Science. Courses represent the curricular activities associated with the undergraduate academic unit.

All RadGrad Explorers have a common look and feel.

![](/img/user-guide/new-student/courses-explorer.png)

You can filter, sort, and search courses.

The ICS department has 6 core courses that every student must take, ICS 111, ICS 141, ICS 211, ICS 241, ICS 311, and ICS 314. You should add these courses to your profile.

Then we can sort by recommended. Here's a screen-shot of George's recommended courses:

![](/img/user-guide/new-student/recommended-courses.png)

The course details page shows additional information about the course.

![](/img/user-guide/new-student/course-details-page.png)

The left-hand column shows related

* Interests
* Career Goals
* Opportunities

The right-hand column shows more details about the course, the student participation by semester, and student reviews of the course.

:::tip RadGrad walk-through
It's worth spending some time on the Course Explorer. Read through the different Courses. If it is interesting to you click the Add to Profile button. 

Add the core ICS courses to your profile.
<hr/>
(Problems with this page? Email radgrad@hawaii.edu to let us know.)
:::

Commit message:

finished new user tutorial revision

docs/users/new-student/courses.md, after:

---
title: Choose your courses
sidebar_label: Courses
---

The next High Priority checklist item to take care of involves Courses:

![](/img/user-guide/new-student/home-courses.png)

:::info Pro Tip
RadGrad does not attempt to provide comprehensive course planning tools. It won't tell you which courses are required for your degree, or whether you've satisfied the prerequisites for a course, or whether a particular course is offered in a given semester, and so forth. At the University of Hawaii, you'll use STAR (and your advisor) to answer those kinds of questions. Instead, you use RadGrad to help you find courses related to your Interests and Career Goals. You add Courses to your profile so that RadGrad can help make recommendations and help you find your community.
:::

### The Courses Explorer page

The CoursesExplorer looks very similar to the other ones:

![](/img/user-guide/new-student/courses-explorer.png)

As usual, you can filter, sort, and search courses.

### The Courses Details page

When you find an interesting course, click the button to go to its details page.

For example, here's the details page for ICS 321, Databases 1:

![](/img/user-guide/new-student/course-details-page.png)

One thing that's cool about the Course Details page is that you might find reviews of the course written by students who took it previously.

Now spend a few minutes to find courses and add them to your profile. You'll need to add more than three--shoot for around ten.

:::tip Goal for this tutorial page
Before going to the next page in this tutorial, please add at least 6-10 Courses to your profile. This will **not** remove the Courses checklist item from the High Priority area of your Home Page. We'll fix that later in this tutorial.
:::
